# The Two Pillars of JS

## Intro

Javascipt is greatly misunderstood as a language and a skillset.

"What is a closure?" is met with blank stares. You can't use JS properly without
knowing what closures are and how to use them properly.

See article: ["10 interview questions every javascript developer should
know"](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/10-interview-questions-every-javascript-developer-should-know-6fa6bdf5ad95)

JS is great as a tool to quickly pick up and make something. But that portion of
your career shouldn't last more than a year. You should really know the language
after that.

But, more advanced JS training doesn't exist yet :(

Javascript at scale is important. (Not 20,000 -> 100MM visitors a month, but 2
-> 15 developers). Important to understand how JS works as a language so you can
code in a way that is really productive.

Published a book: [Programming Javascript
Applications](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920033141.do) - But years
later, the lack of knowledge still exists. Why? Maybe because so many _new_
folks are coming into the language (great, but; we're failing to take advantage
of some of JS' best features)

## The 2 pillars of Javascript

* Prototypal OO
* Functional Proramming

### Prototypal OO

Gorilla / Banana Problem.

> The problem with object-oriented languages is theyâ€™ve got all this implicit
> environment that they carry around with them. You wanted a banana but what you
> got was a gorilla holding the banana and the entire jungle.

- Joe Armstrong

Practical example:
[learn-javascript-courses/composition-examples](http://github.com/learn-javascript-courses/composition-examples)
> examples > gorilla-banana (also the tests files)

As your application grows (from `v1`), you can extend it (`v2`), but now you're
getting "extra stuff" along with the `ChannelStrip` (ie; the `distortion` and
`cabinet`).

Why? Because we've created a _is-a_ relationship instead of _has-a_ or _uses-a_
relationship.

This is "classical" inheritence.

That becomes problematic.

So, what does a _has-a_ look like? See the `v3` example which allows you to
import just the things you need (with `Object.assign` or stamps, or whatever
technique to combine these things together)

> Favour Object Compesition over Class Inheritence

- Gang of Four

_is-a_ creates the tightest possible coupling in Object Oriented Design. This
also means we're programming to an implementation rather than an interface (eg;
calls to `super`).

Eventually you'll have a use-case where the new thing you need does not fit into
that _is-a_ relationship.

Instead; use composition. It's like ikea furniture (all peices are specific for
building _that_ chari) vs lego blocks (all peices can be put together to make
whatever you want)

Could end up making a "God Class" which contains _everything_ because it doesn't
fit into the heirarchy very well. This happens to avoid duplication.

Alternatively: _Duplication by necessity_: It'll be ok, we'll fix it tomorrow.
But today, we're going to copy this logic from one object to another.

But copy+paste means you could be copy+pasting a bug throughout the codebase.

Story Time:

Troops can flock

Story Time: Helicopter Flight Simulator. To train pilots to not scare kangaroos
to not give away their location. So they put together some troop movement 

[... battery died! :(]

[Talk notes](http://github.com/ericelliott/the-two-pillars-of-javascript-talk)
